README.md, before:

# Neqo, an Implementation of QUIC written in Rust

![neqo logo](https://github.com/mozilla/neqo/raw/master/neqo.png "neqo logo")

To run test http 0.9 programs (neqo-client and neqo-server):

* `cargo build`
* `./target/debug/neqo-server 12345 -k key --db ./test-fixture/db`
* `./target/debug/neqo-client http://127.0.0.1:12345/ -o --db ./test-fixture/db`

To run test HTTP/3 programs (neqo-client and neqo-http3-server):

* `cargo build`
* `./target/debug/neqo-http3-server [::]:12345 --db ./test-fixture/db`
* `./target/debug/neqo-client http://127.0.0.1:12345/ --db ./test-fixture/db`

## Faster Builds with Separate NSS/NSPR

You can clone NSS (https://hg.mozilla.org/projects/nss) and NSPR
(https://hg.mozilla.org/projects/nspr) into the same directory and export an
environment variable called `NSS_DIR` pointing to NSS.  This causes the build to
use the existing NSS checkout.  However, in order to run anything that depends
on NSS, you need to set `$\[DY]LD\_LIBRARY\_PATH` to point to
`$NSS_DIR/../dist/Debug/lib`.


## Debugging Neqo

### Using SSLKEYLOGFILE to decrypt Wireshark logs

[Info here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Projects/NSS/Key_Log_Format)

TODO: What is the minimum Wireshark version needed?
TODO: Above link may be incorrect, protocol now called TLS instead of SSL?

### Using RUST_LOG effectively

As documented in the [env_logger documentation](https://docs.rs/env_logger/),
the `RUST_LOG` environment variable can be used to selectively enable log messages
from Rust code. This works for Neqo's cmdline tools, as well as for when Neqo is
incorporated into Gecko, although [Gecko needs to be built in debug mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Configuring_Build_Options).

Some examples:
1. `RUST_LOG=neqo_transport::dump ./mach run` lists sent and received QUIC
   packets and their frames' contents only.
1. `RUST_LOG=neqo_transport=debug,neqo_http3=trace,info ./mach run` sets a
   'debug' log level for transport, 'trace' level for http3, and 'info' log
   level for all other Rust crates, both Neqo and others used by Gecko.
1. `RUST_LOG=neqo=trace,error ./mach run` sets `trace` level for all modules
   starting with "neqo", and sets `error` as minimum log level for other
   unrelated Rust log messages.


### Trying In-development Neqo code in Gecko

In a checked-out copy of Gecko source, set paths for the four Neqo crates to
local versions in `netwerk/socket/neqo_glue/Cargo.toml`. For example, if Neqo
was checked out to /home/alice/git/neqo, change:

```
neqo-http3 = { tag = "v0.1.7", git = "https://github.com/mozilla/neqo" }
neqo-transport = { tag = "v0.1.7", git = "https://github.com/mozilla/neqo" }
neqo-common = { tag = "v0.1.7", git = "https://github.com/mozilla/neqo" }
```

to

```
neqo-http3 = { path = "/home/alice/git/neqo/neqo-http3" }
neqo-transport = { path = "/home/alice/git/neqo/neqo-transport" }
neqo-common = { path = "/home/alice/git/neqo/neqo-common" }
```

and

```
[dependencies.neqo-crypto]
tag = "v0.1.7"
git = "https://github.com/mozilla/neqo"
default-features = false
features = ["gecko"]
```

to

```
[dependencies.neqo-crypto]
path = "/home/alice/git/neqo/neqo-crypto"
default-features = false
features = ["gecko"]
```

Note: Using newer Neqo code with Gecko may also require changes (likely to `neqo_glue`) if
something has changed.

Compile Gecko as usual with `./mach build`.

Commit message:

Indicate mercurial is "required" for nss build

README.md, after:

# Neqo, an Implementation of QUIC written in Rust

![neqo logo](https://github.com/mozilla/neqo/raw/master/neqo.png "neqo logo")

To run test http 0.9 programs (neqo-client and neqo-server):

* `cargo build`
* `./target/debug/neqo-server 12345 -k key --db ./test-fixture/db`
* `./target/debug/neqo-client http://127.0.0.1:12345/ -o --db ./test-fixture/db`

To run test HTTP/3 programs (neqo-client and neqo-http3-server):

* `cargo build`
* `./target/debug/neqo-http3-server [::]:12345 --db ./test-fixture/db`
* `./target/debug/neqo-client http://127.0.0.1:12345/ --db ./test-fixture/db`

## Faster Builds with Separate NSS/NSPR

You can clone NSS (https://hg.mozilla.org/projects/nss) and NSPR
(https://hg.mozilla.org/projects/nspr) into the same directory and export an
environment variable called `NSS_DIR` pointing to NSS.  This causes the build to
use the existing NSS checkout.  However, in order to run anything that depends
on NSS, you need to set `$\[DY]LD\_LIBRARY\_PATH` to point to
`$NSS_DIR/../dist/Debug/lib`.

Note: If you did not compile nss separately, you should have mercurial installed on your machine in order for nss to build.

## Debugging Neqo

### Using SSLKEYLOGFILE to decrypt Wireshark logs

[Info here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Projects/NSS/Key_Log_Format)

TODO: What is the minimum Wireshark version needed?
TODO: Above link may be incorrect, protocol now called TLS instead of SSL?

### Using RUST_LOG effectively

As documented in the [env_logger documentation](https://docs.rs/env_logger/),
the `RUST_LOG` environment variable can be used to selectively enable log messages
from Rust code. This works for Neqo's cmdline tools, as well as for when Neqo is
incorporated into Gecko, although [Gecko needs to be built in debug mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Build_Instructions/Configuring_Build_Options).

Some examples:
1. `RUST_LOG=neqo_transport::dump ./mach run` lists sent and received QUIC
   packets and their frames' contents only.
1. `RUST_LOG=neqo_transport=debug,neqo_http3=trace,info ./mach run` sets a
   'debug' log level for transport, 'trace' level for http3, and 'info' log
   level for all other Rust crates, both Neqo and others used by Gecko.
1. `RUST_LOG=neqo=trace,error ./mach run` sets `trace` level for all modules
   starting with "neqo", and sets `error` as minimum log level for other
   unrelated Rust log messages.


### Trying In-development Neqo code in Gecko

In a checked-out copy of Gecko source, set paths for the four Neqo crates to
local versions in `netwerk/socket/neqo_glue/Cargo.toml`. For example, if Neqo
was checked out to /home/alice/git/neqo, change:

```
neqo-http3 = { tag = "v0.1.7", git = "https://github.com/mozilla/neqo" }
neqo-transport = { tag = "v0.1.7", git = "https://github.com/mozilla/neqo" }
neqo-common = { tag = "v0.1.7", git = "https://github.com/mozilla/neqo" }
```

to

```
neqo-http3 = { path = "/home/alice/git/neqo/neqo-http3" }
neqo-transport = { path = "/home/alice/git/neqo/neqo-transport" }
neqo-common = { path = "/home/alice/git/neqo/neqo-common" }
```

and

```
[dependencies.neqo-crypto]
tag = "v0.1.7"
git = "https://github.com/mozilla/neqo"
default-features = false
features = ["gecko"]
```

to

```
[dependencies.neqo-crypto]
path = "/home/alice/git/neqo/neqo-crypto"
default-features = false
features = ["gecko"]
```

Note: Using newer Neqo code with Gecko may also require changes (likely to `neqo_glue`) if
something has changed.

Compile Gecko as usual with `./mach build`.
